+++
title = "Are earthquakes common in Samoa?"
date = 2018-12-26T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "are-earthquakes-common-in-samoa"
description = "Are earthquakes common in Samoa?"
+++
Are earthquakes common in Samoa?
--------------------------------

The 2009 Samoa earthquake and tsunami took place on 29 September 2009 in the southern Pacific Ocean adjacent to the Kermadec-Tonga subduction zone. This is part of the Pacific Ring of Fire, where tectonic plates in the Earth’s lithosphere meet and earthquakes and volcanic activity are common.

What caused the Samoa earthquake?
---------------------------------

The September 2009 Samoa tsunami was generated by an unusual type of earthquake that occurs near ocean trenches. Outer-rise earthquakes are caused by stresses in the subducting, oceanic plate induced by bending as the plate enters the trench.

How many people did the Samoa tsunami kill?
-------------------------------------------

192 people  
The earthquakes generated tsunami waves of up to 22 meters (72 feet) that engulfed the shores, killing at least 192 people—149 in Samoa, 34 in American Samoa, and 9 in Niuatoputapu, Tonga.

What natural disasters happen in Samoa?
---------------------------------------

Samoa is located in a seismic zone called the “Ring of Fire” and is subject to earthquakes. An earthquake of magnitude 8.3 struck Samoa on 29 September 2009, which triggered a devastating tsunami. The tropical cyclone season normally runs from November to the end of April.

Can an earthquake cause an island to sink?
------------------------------------------

In the wake of the mega-quakes, though, the researchers discovered that these Pacific islands are also sinking. …

Has Rarotonga ever had a tsunami?
---------------------------------

The tsunami which reached islands of the Samoan group at approximately 2035 hours local time, 22 May 1960, was undoubtedly one of the largest that has been recorded in the group. The characteristics of the tsunami observed at Rarotonga in the Cook Islands are also described.

Is a 6.6 magnitude earthquake bad?
----------------------------------

Generally, earthquakes of magnitude 6 and above are the ones for concern. When nearby, they can cause shaking intensities that can begin to break chimneys and cause considerable damage to the most seismically vulnerable structures, such as non-retrofitted brick buildings.

Is Samoa in the Ring of Fire?
-----------------------------

The tropical islands of Samoa and American Samoa sit in the heart of the Pacific Ocean, midway between New Zealand and Hawaii. The group of islands is located within range of the Pacific “Ring of Fire”, which is known for its frequent earthquakes and tsunami activity, making the chain prone to natural disasters.

Can you sink an island?
-----------------------

Islands are not floating at all. They are actually mountains or volcanos that are mostly underwater. If an island does disappear under the ocean, it’s because the land underneath has moved or the bottom of the volcano has broken apart. But they simply can not sink.

Where did the earthquake and tsunami in Samoa take place?
---------------------------------------------------------

/ -15.53; -171.87 The 2009 Samoa earthquake and tsunami took place on 29 September 2009 in the southern Pacific Ocean adjacent to the Kermadec-Tonga subduction zone. The submarine earthquake occurred in an extensional environment and had a moment magnitude of 8.1 and a maximum Mercalli intensity of VI ( Strong ).

Is the Andaman and Nicobar Islands prone to earthquakes?
--------------------------------------------------------

The Andaman and the Nicobar archipelago is prone to earthquakes. It is also not unusual for the islands to witness more than two-three quakes a day. Track Latest News Live on NDTV.com and get news updates from India and around the world.

Where are earthquakes most likely to occur in Indonesia?
--------------------------------------------------------

Subduction which is a meeting of two plates is found along the west coast of Sumatra, the southern coast of the archipelago, and northern Sulawesi. Practically, the regions along Sumatra, Java, Bali, Nusa Tenggara, and Sulawesi face the threat of earthquakes due to the subduction of active plates.

How big was the earthquake in Samoa in 2009?
--------------------------------------------

The submarine earthquake occurred in an extensional environment and had a moment magnitude of 8.1 and a maximum Mercalli intensity of VI (Strong). It was the largest earthquake of 2009. A tsunami was generated which caused substantial damage and loss of life in Samoa, American Samoa, and Tonga.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_58395" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jhRuUoTnA6g?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>