+++
title = "Has Japan ever hit a tsunami?"
date = 2018-12-14T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "has-japan-ever-hit-a-tsunami"
description = "Has Japan ever hit a tsunami?"
+++
Has Japan ever hit a tsunami?
-----------------------------

The first recorded tsunami in Japan, it hit on 29 November 684 on the shore of the Kii, Shikoku, and Awaji region. The earthquake, estimated at magnitude 8.4, was followed by a huge tsunami, but no estimates exist for the number of deaths. A tsunami flooded the coastal region, and some people died.

How many times does a tsunami hit?
----------------------------------

How often do tsunamis occur? On the average, two tsunamis occur per year throughout the world which inflict damage near the source. Approximately every 15 years a destructive, ocean-wide tsunami occurs.

How many people have been killed by tsunami in Japan?
-----------------------------------------------------

In a total of 141 tidal waves classified as a tsunami since 684 a total of 130,974 people died in Japan. Tsunamis therefore occur comparatively often in this country. The strongest tidal wave registered in Japan so far reached a height of 90 meters. At this Tsunami on 08/29/1741 a total of 1,607 people have been killed.

Where was the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in 2011?
------------------------------------------------------

Japan earthquake and tsunami of 2011. A massive tsunami, generated by a powerful undersea earthquake, engulfing a residential area in Natori, Miyagi prefecture, northeastern Honshu, Japan, on March 11, 2011. Kyodo/AP.

Where did the tsunami hit in Japan in the Ninna era?
----------------------------------------------------

The Sanriku region was struck by a major tsunami that caused flooding extending 4 km inland from the coast. The town of Tagajō was destroyed, with an estimated 1,000 casualties. On 26 August of the Ninna era, there was a strong shock in the Kyoto region, causing great destruction.

Where did the tsunami hit in the United States?
-----------------------------------------------

It generated waves 11 to 12 feet (3.3 to 3.6 metres) high along the coasts of Kauai and Hawaii in the Hawaiian Islands chain and 5-foot (1.5-metre) waves along the island of Shemya in the Aleutian Islands chain. Several hours later 9-foot (2.7-metre) tsunami waves struck the coasts of California and Oregon in North America.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_52710" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jBGROIKdsOs?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>