+++
title = "How did Andersonville Georgia play a role in the Civil War?"
date = 2018-12-17T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "how-did-andersonville-georgia-play-a-role-in-the-civil-war"
description = "How did Andersonville Georgia play a role in the Civil War?"
+++
How did Andersonville Georgia play a role in the Civil War?
-----------------------------------------------------------

He commanded a prison in Tuscaloosa, Alabama; escorted prisoners around the Confederacy; handled exchanges with the Union; and was wounded in a stagecoach accident. After returning to duty, he traveled to Europe and likely delivered messages to Confederate envoys.

Why was Andersonville Georgia significant during the war?
---------------------------------------------------------

The largest and most famous of 150 military prisons of the Civil War, Camp Sumter, commonly known as Andersonville, was the deadliest landscape of the Civil War. Of the 45,000 Union soldiers imprisoned here, nearly 13,000 died. Causes of Death. Prison Rules and Regulations, January 1865.

How did the Civil War affect the Southern economy?
--------------------------------------------------

The twin disadvantages of a smaller industrial economy and having so much of the war fought in the South hampered Confederate growth and development. Southern farmers (including cotton growers) were hampered in their ability to sell their goods overseas due to Union naval blockades.

What caused conditions at Andersonville to be so poor?
------------------------------------------------------

The prisoners, nearly naked, suffered from swarms of insects, filth, and disease, much of which was generated by the contaminated water supply of the creek. Andersonville had the highest mortality rate of any Civil War prison. Nearly 13,000 of the 45,000 men who entered the stockade died there, chiefly of malnutrition.

What were the conditions of Andersonville?
------------------------------------------

What were the social effects of the Civil War?
----------------------------------------------

After the war, the villages, cities and towns in the South were utterly destroyed. Furthermore, the Confederate bonds and currencies became worthless. All the banks in the South collapsed, and there was an economic depression in the South with deepened inequalities between the North and South.

What economic issues caused the Civil War?
------------------------------------------

A common explanation is that the Civil War was fought over the moral issue of slavery. In fact, it was the economics of slavery and political control of that system that was central to the conflict. A key issue was states’ rights.

When did Andersonville Georgia become a Confederate prison?
-----------------------------------------------------------

From February 1864 until the end of the American Civil War (1861-65) in April 1865, Andersonville, Georgia, served as the site of a notorious Confederate military prison.

What was the mortality rate in Andersonville during the Civil War?
------------------------------------------------------------------

Even by the terrible standards of both Union and Confederate prisoner of war camps, where more than 50,000 from both sides of the Civil War died, the mortality rate at Andersonville was astronomical. Camp Sumter held 10 percent of all Civil War prisoners yet accounted for 23 percent of the war’s prisoner deaths.

Who was in the garrison of Andersonville Georgia?
-------------------------------------------------

Andersonville’s garrison consisted of troops from various units over the course of its fourteen months in operation. These included the Fifty-fifth Georgia Infantry, the Twenty-sixth Alabama Infantry, and a battery from Florida.

How big was the Confederate camp in Andersonville?
--------------------------------------------------

The Confederate military impressed hundreds of slaves to clear-cut the tall Georgia pines and construct the 16.5-acre camp, which meant that Union soldiers weren’t the first people brought to Andersonville against their own will.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_85037" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l8k8LjgQwTM?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>