+++
title = "How will the scientists study Nyiragongo?"
date = 2018-12-26T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "how-will-the-scientists-study-nyiragongo"
description = "How will the scientists study Nyiragongo?"
+++
How will the scientists study Nyiragongo?
-----------------------------------------

The researchers analyze seismic and infrasound signals generated by the volcano as well as data collected during satellite flyovers to measure Nyiragongo’s lake level fluctuations. The seismic and infrasound data, collected continuously, help researchers gauge pressure changes in magmatic activity.

What are the challenges of living close to Mt Nyiragongo?
---------------------------------------------------------

1\. Volcanic hazard risks, scientific forecasts and warnings. According to scientists, the two main hazards of immediate concern in a future eruption of Nyiragongo are: i.) a lava eruption in Goma from fissures located within 1-2 km of the lake shore leading to a major phreato-magmatic explosion, and ii.)

What caused the Nyiragongo eruption?
------------------------------------

the release of carbon-rich gases, particularly methane, during rifting and eruption, leading to explosions; the potential for carbon-rich gas accumulation at the bottom of lake Kivu, which may cause surface water to sink, releasing lethal gases threatening Goma.

What happened in Goma DRC?
--------------------------

The volcano, 10km (six miles) from Goma, spewed lava over the weekend, killing 32 people and leaving thousands homeless, the UN says. Thousands fled then but some residents had started returning.

Why is Nyiragongo dangerous?
----------------------------

Nyiragongo is considered one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world because of its particularly fast-moving lava, which can flow more than 60 miles per hour. During the 2002 eruption, swaths of lava up to 165 feet wide tore down Nyiragongo’s slopes, burning everything in their path.

Is Nyiragongo safe?
-------------------

Tourists who were near the crater the Nyiragongo volcano in the Democratic Republic Congo erupted are safe, the Congolese Institute for the Conservation of Nature (ICCN) said Sunday. Nor were the rare mountain gorillas in the Virunga National Park threatened by the eruption, the institute added.

What kind of volcano is the most dangerous?
-------------------------------------------

supervolcanoes  
Not surprisingly, supervolcanoes are the most dangerous type of volcano. Supervolcanoes are a fairly new idea in volcanology. The exact cause of supervolcano eruptions is still debated, however, scientists think that a very large magma chamber erupts entirely in one catastrophic explosion.

How fast does lava flow?
------------------------

Fluid basalt flows can extend tens of kilometers from an erupting vent. The leading edges of basalt flows can travel as fast as 10 km/h (6 mph) on steep slopes but they typically advance less than 1 km/h (0.27 m/s or about 1 ft/s) on gentle slopes.

What is the most dangerous volcano on Earth?
--------------------------------------------

The World’s Most Dangerous Volcanoes

- Mount Pinatubo, The Philippines.
- Mount Agung, Bali.
- Mount Fuji, Japan.
- Popocatépetl, Mexico.
- Mount Vesuvius, Italy.
- Timinfaya, Lanzarote.
- Reykjanes, Iceland.
- Mount Etna, Sicily. Europe’s highest volcano, Mount Etna is a great place to potentially witness some volcanic activity.

Can you visit Mount Nyiragongo?
-------------------------------

Mount Nyiragongo hike tours were opened to tourism in 2014 by the Virunga National Park authorities. Visitors usually combine mountain gorilla trekking and hiking the Nyiragongo volcano Those who are looking for a unique and once in a lifetime mountain hiking adventure will find the answer in hiking Mount Nyiragongo.

Why is Taal volcano most dangerous?
-----------------------------------

US-based volcanologist Jess Phoenix says Taal has “a history of multiple eruption styles”, so it creates threats on the ground in the form of lava and in the air through ash. There’s also the risk of a “volcanic tsunami”, she adds, which can be trigged by falling debris after an eruption generating waves in the lake.

How did the eruption of Mount Nyiragongo affect Goma?
-----------------------------------------------------

By mid-day, the situation improved as the lava flow started to slow down. However, later in the afternoon, following a series of earthquakes, the flow of lava began again to pick up momentum. The lava began flowing from a series of satellite craters that opened up close to Goma, at the Goma, causing the lava to encroach parts of the town.

Is there a lava lake on Mt Nyiragongo?
--------------------------------------

Scientists predict future activity from Mount Nyiragongo in coming years, though they are unable to effectively study the volcano and determine precisely when due to the war-torn state of the Congo. From what scientists do know, Mount Nyiragongo contains one of the world’s deepest lava lakes.

Where did the lava flow from in Goma?
-------------------------------------

The lava began flowing from a series of satellite craters that opened up close to Goma, at the Goma, causing the lava to encroach parts of the town. During the night, the lava divided Goma in to two sectors and eventually reached the lake. A number of houses and warehouses were destroyed by the lava or burnt by fire.

How big is the population of Goma Rwanda?
-----------------------------------------

The current situation can be summarized as follows: the bulk of the population of Goma is back home while approximately 30,000 persons are still scattered between areas south, north and west of Goma as well as in two camps in Rwanda. There are currently 120,000 homeless people in the Goma area.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_22953" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/f0oWMJKyenc?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>