+++
title = "How often does the Thames Barrier close now?"
date = 2018-12-22T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "how-often-does-the-thames-barrier-close-now"
description = "How often does the Thames Barrier close now?"
+++
How often does the Thames Barrier close now?
--------------------------------------------

The Thames Barrier has been closed 199 times since it became operational in 1982 (correct as of June 2021).

How much will it cost to replace the Thames Barrier?
----------------------------------------------------

The barrier cost £461 million (£1.23 billion now). Total construction cost was around £534 million (£1.6 billion at 2016 prices) with an additional £100 million for river defences.

Is the Thames Barrier The best way to manage flooding?
------------------------------------------------------

With no barrier, at high tide, the sea would normally flow up the estuary and into London, pushing the river water back. With all the extra rainfall, this could worsen the flooding. The barrier prevents this from happening.

Can London be flooded?
----------------------

Is London at risk of flooding? London is well protected from more predictable sources of flooding, such as tidal and river flooding due to the Environment Agency’s flood forecasting and flood warning systems and the operation and maintenance of its flood defences.

How long does it take for the Thames Barrier to close?
------------------------------------------------------

The Thames Barrier will then remain closed over high water until the water level downstream of the Thames Barrier has reduced to the same level as upstream. This is a managed process to provide for different circumstances, and takes about 5 hours.

Why was the Thames Barrier built in the first place?
----------------------------------------------------

The future of the Thames Barrier The barrier was originally designed to protect London from a very large flood (1 in 100 years) up to 2030. As climate change and rising sea levels are creating a higher risk of flooding in London\]

Is the Thames Barrier a moveable flood defence?
-----------------------------------------------

The Thames Barrier is a moveable flood defence. In fact, the UK government advises that it is one of the biggest of its kind across the whole planet. The Barrier is operated through a wing of the British government known as the Environment Agency.

Why was the Thames Barrier closed at Teddington?
------------------------------------------------

The barrier closure is triggered when a combination of high tide forecasts in the North Sea and high river flows at the tidal limit of Teddington weir indicate that water levels would exceed 4.87 meters in central London. Future sea levels and river flows are generated by Met Office computer models and forecasting systems.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_82142" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3K6vfwJm_R4?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>