+++
title = "How high were the waves in the 2011 tsunami?"
date = 2018-12-28T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "how-high-were-the-waves-in-the-2011-tsunami"
description = "How high were the waves in the 2011 tsunami?"
+++
How high were the waves in the 2011 tsunami?
--------------------------------------------

38 meters  
The Great East Japan Earthquake — the name given to the event by the Japanese government — triggered a massive tsunami that flooded more than 200 square miles of coastal land. Waves were estimated to be as high as 38 meters, the height of a 12-story building.

How tall was the tsunami that hit Fukushima in 2011?
----------------------------------------------------

The March 11, 2011, earthquake generated a tsunami with a maximum wave height of almost 40 meters (130 feet) in the Iwate Prefecture. Researchers also determined that a 2,000-kilometer (1,242-mile) stretch of Japan’s Pacific coast was impacted by the tsunami.

What was the height of the tsunami waves smashing into Hawaii?
--------------------------------------------------------------

Waves more than 100 feet high raced across the Pacific, killing 159 people and causing more than $23 million in damages in Hawai’i. The run-up, or maximum height of the waves on shore, reached 54 feet on Moloka’i and 55 feet on the Big Island’s Pololu. In some areas, waves penetrated more than a half mile inland.

How fast were the waves moving in the 2011 Japan tsunami?
---------------------------------------------------------

This tsunami was generated by the 9.0 magnitude earthquake off the Pacific coast of Japan on March 11, 2011 along a 300 km or 180 mi. long megathrust fault. The tsunami killed over 17,000 people, all but two of whom were in Japan. In the open ocean, tsunami waves can travel at speeds up to 800 km per hour or 500 mi.

How big was the tsunami in Japan in 2011?
-----------------------------------------

The earthquake triggered tsunami warnings throughout the Pacific basin. The tsunami raced outward from the epicentre at speeds that approached about 500 miles (800 km) per hour. It generated waves 11 to 12 feet (3.3 to 3.6 metres) high along the coasts of Kauai and Hawaii in the Hawaiian Islands chain and 5-foot…

Where did the tsunami hit on the west coast?
--------------------------------------------

Tsunami Waves From Japan’s Earthquake Hit West Coast, Hawaii Spawned by Japan’s magnitude 8.9 earthquake, waves swamped Hawaii beaches and severely damaged harbors in California.

How tall was the tsunami in Alaska in 1958?
-------------------------------------------

The landslide and tsunami killed 15,000 people. The largest tsunami in recorded history hit on July 9, 1958, at Lituya Bay on the southeast coast of Alaska. The wave is recorded at 1,720 feet (524 meters high), but because the area was relatively isolated and in a unique geologic setting,…

Where did the tsunami hit in Hawaii on Friday?
----------------------------------------------

The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said Kauai was the first island hit early Friday by the tsunami. Water rushed ashore in Honolulu, swamping the beach in Waikiki and surging over the break wall in the world-famous resort but stopping short of the area’s high-rise hotels. Roadways and beaches were empty as the tsunami struck the state.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_43912" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/86ThCibkHQw?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>