+++
title = "How was Mount Ruiz formed?"
date = 2018-12-26T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "how-was-mount-ruiz-formed"
description = "How was Mount Ruiz formed?"
+++
How was Mount Ruiz formed?
--------------------------

Hear this out loudPauseThe stratovolcano of Nevado del Ruiz is one of several subduction-related volcanos in our collection. It is in Colombia (South America) and is in the northern most part of the Andean Volcanic Arc, formed by the subduction of the Nazca plate under the South American plate.

Is Nevado del Ruiz located in the Ring of Fire?
-----------------------------------------------

Hear this out loudPauseNevado del Ruiz lies within the Pacific Ring of Fire, a region that encircles the Pacific Ocean and contains some of the world’s most active volcanoes.

Where is the Nevado del Ruiz volcano located?
---------------------------------------------

Nevado del Ruiz is the northernmost of several Colombian stratovolcanoes in the Andes Volcanic Chain of western South America. The Andean volcanic belt is generated by the eastward subductionof the Nazcaoceanic plate beneath the South Americancontinental plate. Click to see full answer

How tall was Mount Ruiz when it erupted?
----------------------------------------

…a relatively small eruption of Mount Ruiz, a stratovolcano in the Andes Mountains of Colombia, killed 25,000 people. This volcano is tall enough, at an elevation of 5,400 metres (17,700 feet), to have a glacial ice cap. When a brief explosive eruption dumped several million cubic metres of hot pyroclastic….

How many people died in the mud slide on Mount Ruiz?
----------------------------------------------------

Mud also swelled the nearby Gualí River to overflowing, and on the western side of the mountain another mud slide killed about 1,000 people in the town of Chinchiná on the Claro River. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager.

Why did so many people die at Nevado del Ruiz?
----------------------------------------------

• Pollution of the area in and around the volcano with large amounts of water and mud. • The lahars mud and water meant that many people could be given no more help than comfort as they died of hypothermia or gangrene. A famous example of this was Omayra Sánchez who was photographed by a media photographer as she slowly died.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_74797" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pFTETTlLGqY?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>