+++
title = "How do volcanoes affect earthquakes?"
date = 2018-12-23T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "how-do-volcanoes-affect-earthquakes"
description = "How do volcanoes affect earthquakes?"
+++
How do volcanoes affect earthquakes?
------------------------------------

Volcanically-caused long period earthquakes are produced by vibrations generated by the movement of magma or other fluids within the volcano. Pressure within the system increases and the surrounding rock fails, creating small earthquakes.

Can underwater volcanoes cause earthquakes?
-------------------------------------------

The research team realized these extinct volcanoes sometimes get squashed in subduction zones. The researchers propose that two tsunamis that struck New Zealand in 1947 were caused by tsunami earthquakes that struck in a zone near two sunken volcanoes off the country’s northern coast.

Do earthquakes cause volcanoes or do volcanoes cause earthquakes?
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Sometimes, yes. A few large regional earthquakes (greater than magnitude 6) are considered to be related to a subsequent eruption or to some type of unrest at a nearby volcano. However, volcanoes can only be triggered into eruption by nearby tectonic earthquakes if they are already poised to erupt.

What is the relationship between active volcanoes and earthquakes?
------------------------------------------------------------------

Moreover, since earthquakes and volcanoes usually occur near the edges of tectonic plates, it is known that volcanoes always cause quakes of different magnitudes due to the moving of lava to the surface.

Can a volcano trigger a tsunami?
--------------------------------

During eruptions, volcanic tsunamis can be caused by underwater explosions and shock waves caused by large explosions – even ones that occur above the waterline. Shock waves coupling with sea waves can produce tsunamis up to three meters in height.

How is the Ayelu volcano in Ethiopia built?
-------------------------------------------

Ayelu was constructed by a series of thick rhyolitic lava flows, creating a higher and steeper-sided volcano than its neighbor Adwa. Hot springs are located on the western flank of Ayelu. First visit to our site? If you havn’t done it yet, download the Volcanoes &amp; Earthquakes app to get one of the fastest volcano news online:

Why are there landslides on the Azores Islands?
-----------------------------------------------

Important landslides triggered either by earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, extreme meteorological conditions and/or coastal erosion processes frequently affect the islands, and tsunamis related with earthquakes and landslides were reported to have occurred in the past.

Where are the hot springs of Ayelu located?
-------------------------------------------

Ayelu was constructed by a series of thick rhyolitic lava flows, creating a higher and steeper-sided volcano than its neighbor Adwa. Hot springs are located on the western flank of Ayelu.

Why is the Azores region vulnerable to slope instability?
---------------------------------------------------------

The Azores are a region particularly vulnerable to slope instability due to geological, geomorphologic and meteorological factors.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_61309" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LQwZwKS9RPs?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>