+++
title = "Is 30.36 a high barometric pressure?"
date = 2018-12-18T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "is-30.36-a-high-barometric-pressure"
description = "Is 30.36 a high barometric pressure?"
+++
Is 30.36 a high barometric pressure?
------------------------------------

A barometric reading over 30.20 inHg is generally considered high, and high pressure is associated with clear skies and calm weather. If the reading is over 30.20 inHg (102268.9 Pa or 1022.689 mb): Rising or steady pressure means continued fair weather.

What barometric pressure is considered high pressure?
-----------------------------------------------------

A barometer reading of 30 inches (Hg) is considered normal. Strong high pressure could register as high as 30.70 inches, whereas low pressure associated with a hurricane can dip below 27.30 inches (Hurricane Andrew had a measured surface pressure of 27.23 just before its landfall in Miami Dade County).

What barometric pressure is considered low pressure?
----------------------------------------------------

As a general rule of thumb, lows have a pressure of around 1,000 millibars (29.54 inches of mercury).

Is 29 barometric pressure high or low?
--------------------------------------

The weight of the atmosphere on the surface of the mercury exerts a pressure transmitted through the fluid, forcing it to rise. The greater the weight, the higher the rise. The barometric pressure seldom goes above 31 inches or drops below 29 inches. Normal sea-level pressure is 29.92 inches.

What state has lowest barometric pressure?
------------------------------------------

Honolulu, Hawaii is the place in the US with the overall smallest range of changes in barometric pressure, ranging from 29.34 to 30.32 inHg (993.56 to 1026.75 hPa).

Are Clear skies high pressure or low pressure?
----------------------------------------------

The convergence of air into lows forces air to rise at the center, leading to moist, cloudy conditions. This is why clear skies on satellite images typically indicate high pressure and cloudy skies suggest low pressure.

What does it mean when your barometric pressure is 30?
------------------------------------------------------

Rapidly falling pressure means cloudy and warmer conditions. A barometric reading in the range of 29.80 and 30.20 inHg can be considered normal, and normal pressure is associated with steady weather. Rising or steady pressure means present conditions will continue.

What is the difference between high and low barometric pressure?
----------------------------------------------------------------

Low and High Air Pressure Low air pressure= less weight pushing down= air is rising and cooling which helps form clouds. High air pressure= more weight pushing down= air is sinking and warming with less humidity. Falling or Low Barometric Pressure

What does a barometer reading of 29.80 mean?
--------------------------------------------

A barometric reading below 29.80 inHg is generally considered low, and low pressure is associated with warm air and rainstorms. Rising or steady pressure indicates clearing and cooler weather. Slowly falling pressure indicates rain. Rapidly falling pressure indicates a storm is coming.

Is there a 30 inch high air pressure?
-------------------------------------

No, 30 inch Hg is not a high air pressure. The average sea-level pressure is 1013.25 mbar (101.325 kPa; 29.921 inch Hg). Air pressure in my house located 200 m above the sea level varied between min 29.18, average 29.91 and max 30.62 in the last 5 years. Therefore 30 inch Hg is close to the average.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_54254" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/EkDhlzA-lwI?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>