+++
title = "What country code is 70?"
date = 2018-12-26T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-country-code-is-70"
description = "What country code is 70?"
+++
What country code is 70?
------------------------

International mobile dial codes

<table><tr><th>Country/U.S. Territories</th><th>Country code</th><th>Mobile dial codes (effective 8/2/2019)</th></tr><tr><td>Afghanistan</td><td>93</td><td>70-72, 77-79</td></tr><tr><td>Albania</td><td>355</td><td>66-69</td></tr><tr><td>Algeria</td><td>213</td><td>5-6, 77-79, 9619</td></tr><tr><td>American Samoa</td><td>1 (684)</td><td>258, 733</td></tr></table>

Which country uses 005?
-----------------------

List of international country calling phone codes

<table><tr><th>Country</th><th>Country Code</th><th>International Prefix</th></tr><tr><td>Chile</td><td>56</td><td>1YZ0</td></tr><tr><td>China</td><td>86</td><td>00</td></tr><tr><td>Colombia</td><td>57</td><td>009/007/005</td></tr><tr><td>Comoros</td><td>269</td><td>00</td></tr></table>

Which country uses 224 code?
----------------------------

Guinea  
Telephone numbers in Guinea

<table><tr><th>Location</th></tr><tr><td>Country</td><td>Guinea</td></tr><tr><td>Continent</td><td>Africa</td></tr><tr><td>Access codes</td></tr><tr><td>Country calling code</td><td>+224</td></tr></table>

Is the phone number 0064 a real number?
---------------------------------------

0064, Phone Number, UK. 0064 is a fake telephone number. Avoid unintentionally using real phone numbers by selecting from our range of fictitious telephone numbers. You can find other random phone numbers in the list below. Please note that all numbers generated by Fake Number, including 0064, are fake so won’t work for phone number verification.

What is the area code for 0064 in Germany?
------------------------------------------

Simply replace the 0 before the telephone number to call by 0064 or 01164 if you make call from Canada and USA. Either 0064 X XX XX XX XX. or +64 X XX XX XX XX if you call from a German mobile phone. or +64 XX XX XX XX. is the area code of .

How are country calling codes distributed around the world?
-----------------------------------------------------------

Worldwide distribution of country calling codes. Regions are colored by first digit. Country calling codes or country dial-in codes are telephone number prefixes for reaching telephone subscribers in the networks of the member countries or regions of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU).

How to call from Germany with + 49 country code?
------------------------------------------------

Trace Phone Number. Home › Country Calling Codes or International Dialing Codes › +49 Country Code. +49 Country Code is assigned to Germany. You may need to follow special instructions to dial numbers from different countries. In general you are required to use suffix +49 Country Code to Call numbers in Countries Germany.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_98514" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4OiNObHC1lc?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>