+++
title = "What wave moves the ground from side to side?"
date = 2018-12-31T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-wave-moves-the-ground-from-side-to-side"
description = "What wave moves the ground from side to side?"
+++
What wave moves the ground from side to side?
---------------------------------------------

Rayleigh wave  
A Rayleigh wave rolls along the ground just like a wave rolls across a lake or an ocean. Because it rolls, it moves the ground up and down, and side-to-side in the same direction that the wave is moving.

Which seismic wave travels side to side?
----------------------------------------

S-wave  
S-wave : The S-wave (secondary, shear, or side-to-side wave) is slower than the P wave and arrives next, shaking the ground up and down and back and forth perpendicular to the direction it is traveling. Shear waves travel at 3.8 kilometers (2.4 miles) per second.

What kind of wave causes the ground to move horizontally from side to side?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Love waves  
Love waves They move the ground from side to side in a horizontal plane but at right angles to the direction of propagation. Love waves are particularly damaging to the foundations of structures because of the horizontal ground motion they generate.

What are the 3 seismic waves?
-----------------------------

There are three major kinds of seismic waves: P, S, and surface waves. P and S waves together are sometimes called body waves because they can travel through the body of the earth, and are not trapped near the surface.

Why are L waves the slowest?
----------------------------

The different S waves arrive after the P waves. The slowest (and latest to arrive on seismograms) are surface waves, such as the L wave. The energy from surface waves is confined to a smaller volume at the surface and the wave amplitude to carry that energy is therefore larger than body waves.

What causes particles to move back and forth in a seismic wave?
---------------------------------------------------------------

It causes cause particles in rocks to move back and forth in the same direction that the wave is traveling. Secondary Waves (S waves) A type of seismic wave that moves the ground up and down or side to side, causes more damage to geologic surfaces and buildings.

How are seismic waves different from P waves?
---------------------------------------------

Secondary Waves (S waves) A type of seismic wave that moves the ground up and down or side to side, causes more damage to geologic surfaces and buildings. Can only travel through solids. Moves slower than P waves.

What happens to the ground during an earthquake?
------------------------------------------------

waves generated by an earthquake can move the ground forward and backward, up and down, and side and side. Focus an earthquake point of where energy release first Primary Waves (P waves) A type of seismic wave that compresses and expands the ground; The first wave to arrive at an earthquake; can travel through solid, liquid and gas.

Which is the second fastest type of seismic wave?
-------------------------------------------------

S waves are the second-fastest seismic waves and thus called Secondary. The speed at which the S waves travel is almost half the speed of Primary Waves.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_34391" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IENdh3TZHD4?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>