+++
title = "What is the interest rate on NYC municipal bonds?"
date = 2018-12-28T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-is-the-interest-rate-on-nyc-municipal-bonds"
description = "What is the interest rate on NYC municipal bonds?"
+++
What is the interest rate on NYC municipal bonds?
-------------------------------------------------

As of June 13, 2020, the Fidelity New York Municipal Income Fund has a duration of 6.76 years, a 30-day SEC yield of 1.89%, and a tax-equivalent yield of 3.66%. Based on trailing 10-year data, the fund has experienced an average annualized volatility of 4.6%, and generated an average annualized return of 3.74%.

What is NYC bond rating?
------------------------

Fitch Ratings – New York – 08 Dec 2020: Fitch Ratings has assigned a ‘AA-‘ rating to New York City’s approximately $1.386 billion GO bonds, fiscal 2021 series D and $114 million GO bonds, fiscal 2021 series E. Both series are taxable. The Rating Outlook on all obligations is Negative.

What is the current interest rate on municipal bonds?
-----------------------------------------------------

Municipal Bonds

<table><tr><th>Name</th><th>Yield</th><th>1 Month</th></tr><tr><td>BVMB2Y:IND Muni Bonds 2 Year Yield</td><td>0.08%</td><td>-6</td></tr><tr><td>BVMB5Y:IND Muni Bonds 5 Year Yield</td><td>0.40%</td><td>-3</td></tr><tr><td>BVMB10Y:IND Muni Bonds 10 Year Yield</td><td>0.91%</td><td>+4</td></tr><tr><td>BVMB30Y:IND Muni Bonds 30 Year Yield</td><td>1.54%</td><td>+13</td></tr></table>

What is the value of a municipal bond based on?
-----------------------------------------------

Types of Municipal Bonds A municipal bond is categorized based on the source of its interest payments and principal repayments. A bond can be structured in different ways offering various benefits, risks and tax treatments. Income generated by a municipal bond may be taxable.

Are municipal bonds tax free in New York?
-----------------------------------------

For residents of New York City, City bonds may be triple-tax exempt. This means that New York City residents who buy tax-exempt bonds may not have to pay federal, New York State, or New York City income taxes on the interest they receive. The City also regularly sells federally-taxable bonds.

What are the best tax free investments?
---------------------------------------

7 Tax-Free Investments to Consider for Your Portfolio

1. Municipal Bonds.
2. Tax-Exempt Mutual Funds.
3. Tax-Exempt Exchange-Traded Funds.
4. Indexed Universal Life Insurance.
5. Roth IRAs and Roth 401(k) Plans.
6. Health Savings Account.
7. 529 College Savings Plan.

How much debt does NYC have?
----------------------------

At the end of fiscal year 2020, New York City debt outstanding grew to $125 billion. As total debt has grown—by 84 percent since 2005—the forms of debt the City issues have also diversified. This growth affects the City budget in the form of higher debt service costs.

What is California’s credit rating?
-----------------------------------

Comparison of Other States’ General Obligation Bond Ratings

<table><tr><th>State</th><th>Fitch</th><th>Moody’s</th></tr><tr><td>California</td><td>AA</td><td>Aa2</td></tr><tr><td>Colorado\*</td><td>NR</td><td>Aa1</td></tr><tr><td>Connecticut</td><td>A+</td><td>Aa3</td></tr><tr><td>Delaware</td><td>AAA</td><td>Aaa</td></tr></table>

Can you lose money on municipal bonds?
--------------------------------------

If you are investing for income, either municipal bonds or money market funds will pay you interest. Just know that bonds can lose value and money market funds most likely won’t. Note also that since municipal bonds are income-tax free, you are actually making more than the interest rate would indicate.

What are the disadvantages of municipal bonds?
----------------------------------------------

The only real disadvantage of municipal bonds is that they carry relatively low interest rates compared to other types of securities. This is particularly true when the economy is strong and interest rates for Treasury bills and CDs rise.

What are the pros and cons of municipal bonds?
----------------------------------------------

Pros and cons of municipal bonds

<table><tr><th>Pros</th><th>Cons</th></tr><tr><td>Tax-exempt from federal and possibly state and local income tax.</td><td>If interest rates rise, market prices of existing bonds will go down.</td></tr><tr><td>Low volatility; safe investment.</td><td>Don’t hold up against inflation as well as stocks.</td></tr><tr><td>Low default risk.</td><td>Still a chance of default. Ex: Detroit.</td></tr></table>

Can NYC issue bonds?
--------------------

Purpose of NYC bonds New York City also issues bonds to refinance outstanding bonds for interest savings, which saves money for taxpayers and ratepayers.

How are municipal bonds issued and how do they work?
----------------------------------------------------

They’re issued by different types of government entities including states and counties. City governments also issue municipal bonds, which are simply called city bonds. Investors earn money on city bonds when the city pays interest on the investment at certain intervals, which are defined in the bond parameters.

How often does New York City issue bonds?
-----------------------------------------

Projects must have useful lives of five years or longer to be funded by debt (three years or longer for information technology projects). New York City also issues bonds to refinance outstanding bonds for interest savings, which saves money for taxpayers and ratepayers.

What’s the minimum amount to invest in New York state bonds?
------------------------------------------------------------

Interest on short-term, fixed-rate notes is paid at maturity. Minimum denomination investment. Most fixed rate bonds and notes are issued in minimum denominations of $5,000 or multiples of $5,000, while variable rate bonds are generally issued in minimum denominations of $100,000 and in $5,000 increments above $100,000.

Can you sell municipal bonds before the maturity date?
------------------------------------------------------

Although investors can sell municipal bonds before their maturity dates, investors will not receive their full return on investment unless the bonds reach their maturities. City Bond Yields

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_88415" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/O2W935hzYpQ?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>