+++
title = "What did Victorians attach to Christmas cards?"
date = 2018-12-27T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-did-victorians-attach-to-christmas-cards"
description = "What did Victorians attach to Christmas cards?"
+++
What did Victorians attach to Christmas cards?
----------------------------------------------

In the 19th century, before festive Christmas cards became the norm, Victorians put a darkly humorous and twisted spin on their seasonal greetings. Some of the more popular subjects included anthropomorphic frogs, bloodthirsty snowmen and dead birds.

What was eaten at Victorian Christmas?
--------------------------------------

The Christmas food was very lavish and extravagant. It included fowl or a roasted goose, pudding, standing rib of beef with Yorkshire pudding, boars head, ham, turkey, oysters, potatoes, pies like cranberry and mince, plum pudding and many other items. The roasted goose was also served with Sage and Onion dressing.

What food did Victorians attach to Christmas cards?
---------------------------------------------------

Christmas Feast Initially, turkey was introduced by wealthier Victorians in the 19th century, but by the beginning of the 20th century, its size and reduction in cost meant that roast turkey became the traditional Christmas meal for most middle class families.

What food did poor Victorians eat on Christmas Day?
---------------------------------------------------

For poorer Victorians, it was customary for them to eat things such as rabbit or beef. Whereas, for richer Victorians, they ate things such as swan, pheasant and turkey. It was the Victorians who made turkey a popular dish at Christmas.

What did people do for Christmas in the Victorian age?
------------------------------------------------------

From ‘A Christmas Carol’ by Charles Dickens. The holidays – The wealth generated by the new factories and industries of the Victorian age allowed middle class families in England and Wales to take time off work and celebrate over two days, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.

How did Charles Dickens influence Christmas in Victorian times?
---------------------------------------------------------------

Charles Dickens is also credited with spreading many of the Christmas traditions in Victorian times. His famous book, A Christmas Carol, was very popular and it influenced how Victorian families approached the celebration of Christmas.

What was the Christmas tradition in the 1840s?
----------------------------------------------

These are the Victorian inventions: Christmas trees, Christmas carols, and Christmas stockings. Before the 1840s, there was no existence of Christmas carols. Yet these are diverting in some ways but we have totally forgotten the most exciting as well as outrageous Victorian tradition.

What foods were eaten at Christmas in Victorian times?
------------------------------------------------------

Previously other forms of roasted meat such as beef and goose were the centrepiece of the Christmas dinner. The turkey was added to this by the more wealthy sections of the community in the 19th century, but its perfect size for a middle class family gathering meant it became the dominant dish by the beginning of the 20th century.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_55837" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-mPtQJxKWLc?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>