+++
title = "What is the biggest earthquake in Vietnam?"
date = 2018-12-26T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-is-the-biggest-earthquake-in-vietnam"
description = "What is the biggest earthquake in Vietnam?"
+++
What is the biggest earthquake in Vietnam?
------------------------------------------

The 5.3-magnitude quake struck the town of Dien Bien Phu at 10:51 p.m. Monday night, said Ho Sy Lam of the provincial People’s Committee. Aftershocks continued until Tuesday morning, he said. Earthquake experts in Hanoi said the quake was the worst to hit Vietnam in a decade.

Is Vietnam in the Ring of Fire?
-------------------------------

Above is a map of Southeast Asia. This includes Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam.

Has Vietnam ever had a tsunami?
-------------------------------

There is no tsunami observation system in Vietnam, and therefore no recorded tsunami information. Usually, the “surveyed data” on tsunamis in Vietnam are mainly based on history books or the recollections of local inhabitants.

Is Vietnam prone to earthquake?
-------------------------------

Vietnam is prone to a wide range of natural disasters including floods, typhoons, landslides, and drought. According to Vietnam’s Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, the country as a whole experienced 134 earthquakes in the 20th century, including two that were between M8. …

Is Vietnam prone to natural disasters?
--------------------------------------

Lying in the tropical monsoon area of the North West Pacific, Vietnam is one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world. It is affected by many kinds of natural disasters such as floods, storms, whirlwinds, flash floods, coastline erosion, droughts and landslides.

How many earthquakes have there been in Vietnam?
------------------------------------------------

From 1900 until 1995: two earthquakes with magnitude 6.7-6.8 occurred in Vietnam. During the same period, the nation logged: two magnitude 5.6-6.0 quakes; 13 magnitude 5.1- 5.5 quakes and more than 100 earthquakes with magnitude 4.6-5.0. The probability of a tsunami in Vietnam is not higher than any other country in the region.

Where was the earthquake in Vietnam on March 24?
------------------------------------------------

On March 24, a magnitude 6.8 earthquake erupted along the border between Myanmar and Thailand at around 8:25 p.m. At least 70 people died and more than 100 were injured, according to AsiaNews. The quake caught several Hanoi residents unawares.

Where are the earthquake fault lines in Vietnam?
------------------------------------------------

Significant oceanic earthquakes have been registered along oceanic fault lines surrounding Vietnam. The central coast, from Dong Ha in Quang Tri Province to Phan Rang in Ninh Thuan Province, has been identified as the most vulnerable area in the country to a tsunami strike.

How long would it take for a tsunami to hit Vietnam?
----------------------------------------------------

It is anticipated that it would take about two to three hours for tsunami waves generated by a very strong earthquake along the Manila fault to reach the Vietnamese coastline. It is estimated that 270,000 people in Vietnam live in areas potentially affected by tsunamis.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_50897" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pmtMoIlS8lM?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>