+++
title = "What important molecule is generated by both lactic acid fermentation and alcoholic fermentation?"
date = 2018-12-19T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-important-molecule-is-generated-by-both-lactic-acid-fermentation-and-alcoholic-fermentation"
description = "What important molecule is generated by both lactic acid fermentation and alcoholic fermentation?"
+++
What important molecule is generated by both lactic acid fermentation and alcoholic fermentation?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Biology 2

<table><tr><th>Question</th><th>Answer</th></tr><tr><td>An important molecule generated by both lactic acid fermentation and alcoholic fermentation is</td><td>NAD +</td></tr><tr><td>In the first step of aerobic respiration, pyruvic acid from glycolysis produces CO2,NADH,H ,and</td><td>acetyl CoA</td></tr><tr><td>The electron transport chain is driven by two products of the Krebs cycle—</td><td>NADH and FADH2</td></tr></table>

How many ATP molecules are produced in lactic acid fermentation and alcoholic fermentation?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Lactic acid fermentation has two steps: glycolysis and NADH regeneration. During glycolysis, one glucose molecule is converted to two pyruvate molecules, producing two net ATP and two NADH.

What organisms are responsible for alcoholic and lactic acid fermentation?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Alcoholic fermentation is carried out by yeasts and some other fungi and bacteria. The first step of the alcoholic fermentation pathway involves pyruvate, which is formed by yeast via the EMP pathway, while it is obtained through the ED pathway in the case of Zymomonas (bacteria).

What are the similarities between alcoholic fermentation and lactic acid fermentation?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The similarity is that they both happen under anaerobic conditions and produce a little amount of ATP. The difference is that alcoholic fermentation gives CO2 while lactic acid does not.

What is the difference between lactic acid fermentation and alcoholic fermentation?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In lactic acid fermentation, pyruvate is reduced to lactic acid. In alcoholic fermentation, pyruvate is reduced to alcohol and releases carbon dioxide. This type of fermentation is commonly used with yeast to make alcoholic beverages and cause bread to rise.

What is the chemical formula for alcoholic fermentation?
--------------------------------------------------------

Alcoholic fermentation converts one mole of glucose into two moles of ethanol and two moles of carbon dioxide, producing two moles of ATP in the process. The overall chemical formula for alcoholic fermentation is: C6H12O6 → 2 C2H5OH + 2 CO. Sucrose is a sugar composed of a glucose linked to a fructose.

How many ATPs does alcoholic fermentation produce?
--------------------------------------------------

How Many ATPs are Produced in Alcoholic Fermentation: Two ATPs are produced in Alcohol Fermentation. In Alcoholic fermentation one mole of glucose is converted to two moles of ethanol, two moles of carbon dioxide, producing two moles of ATP in the process.

What is the importance of alcoholic fermentation?
-------------------------------------------------

The main purpose of alcohol fermentation is to produce ATP, the energy currency for cells, under anaerobic conditions. So from the yeast’s perspective, the carbon dioxide and ethanol are waste products. That’s the basic overview of alcohol fermentation.

What is the main purpose for fermentation reactions?
----------------------------------------------------

What is the purpose of fermentation? To regenerate NAD+ so glycolysis can continue to happen. To generate about 32 ATP in the presence of oxygen. To allow cells to survive without using ATP.

What is the difference between lactic acid and alcoholic fermentation?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In lactic acid fermentation, pyruvate is reduced to lactic acid. This occurs in cells, such as our muscles, when we’re exercising. In alcoholic fermentation, pyruvate is reduced to alcohol and releases carbon dioxide.

What are the similarities between cellular respiration and fermentation?
------------------------------------------------------------------------

D. Similarities: Both cellular respiration and fermentation are process that break down food and convert the chemical energy stored in the food to ATP molecules. Both these processes begin with glycolysis and convert glucose to pyruvate.

What happens during lactic acid fermentation?
---------------------------------------------

Lactic acid fermentation is a metabolic process by which glucose or other six-carbon sugars (also, disaccharides of six-carbon sugars, e.g. sucrose or lactose) are converted into cellular energy and the metabolite lactate, which is lactic acid in solution.

Where does lactic acid and alcoholic fermentation occur?
--------------------------------------------------------

It occurs in two major steps: glycolysis and fermentation. Both glycolysis and lactic acid fermentation occur in the cytosol. Glycolysis is the first step of both lactic acid and alcoholic fermentation. During glycolysis, hexose sugars are broken down into two pyruvate molecules. Pyruvate is composed of three carbon molecules.

Why is alcohol fermentation important to the prokaryotes?
---------------------------------------------------------

The chemical reactions of alcohol fermentation are shown here. Ethanol fermentation is important in the production of alcoholic beverages and bread. Beyond lactic acid fermentation and alcohol fermentation, many other fermentation methods occur in prokaryotes, all for the purpose of ensuring an adequate supply of NAD + for glycolysis (Table 2).

What are the reactants in the process of fermentation?
------------------------------------------------------

Attribution: Marc T. Facciotti (original work) The reactants are pyruvate, NADH, and a proton. The products are lactate and NAD +. The process of fermentation results in the reduction of pyruvate to form lactic acid and the oxidation of NADH to form NAD +. Electrons from NADH and a proton are used to reduce pyruvate into lactate.

How is pyruvate converted into alcohol in fermentation?
-------------------------------------------------------

Another familiar fermentation process is alcohol fermentation, which produces ethanol, an alcohol. The alcohol fermentation reaction is the following: Figure 2. Ethanol fermentation is a two-step process. Pyruvate (pyruvic acid) is first converted into carbon dioxide and acetaldehyde.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_19321" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XREALVgxBEI?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>