+++
title = "What is so special about Hoover Dam?"
date = 2018-12-25T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-is-so-special-about-hoover-dam"
description = "What is so special about Hoover Dam?"
+++
What is so special about Hoover Dam?
------------------------------------

Hoover Dam is as tall as a 60-story building. It was the highest dam in the world when it was completed in 1935. Its base is as thick as two football fields are long. Each spillway, designed to let floodwaters pass without harming the dam itself, can handle the volume of water that flows over Niagara Falls.

Why is the Hoover Dam so impressive?
------------------------------------

The Hoover Dam is very successful in accomplishing the jobs it was initially built for including flood prevention, irrigation, and the creation of hydroelectric power, but it has some drawbacks as well.

Why is the Hoover Dam so guarded?
---------------------------------

Security concerns. Because of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the Hoover Dam Bypass project was expedited and traffic across the dam was restricted.

Why is the water level at Hoover Dam decreasing?
------------------------------------------------

The amount of electricity generated by Hoover Dam has been decreasing along with the falling water level in Lake Mead due to the prolonged drought in the 2010s and high demand for the Colorado River’s water.

Who was president when the Hoover Dam was built?
------------------------------------------------

For other uses, see Boulder Dam (disambiguation). Hoover Dam is a concrete arch-gravity dam in the Black Canyon of the Colorado River, on the border between the U.S. states of Nevada and Arizona. It was constructed between 1931 and 1936 during the Great Depression and was dedicated on September 30, 1935, by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.

Is the Hoover Dam in Arizona or Nevada?
---------------------------------------

Hoover Dam is a massive concrete structure built on the border between Arizona and Nevada. It controls the flow of the Colorado River and is responsible for the creation of the giant scenic reservoir of Lake Mead. Did you know that the dam is only about 30 minutes from Las Vegas and offers some of the most spectacular scenery in the southwest?

Why was the Hoover Dam built over Niagara Falls?
------------------------------------------------

Each spillway, designed to let floodwaters pass without harming the dam itself, can handle the volume of water that flows over Niagara Falls. The amount of concrete used in building it was enough to pave a road stretching from San Francisco to New York City.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_96942" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iVtfR4ZmKy0?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>