+++
title = "What is the lowest source of energy?"
date = 2018-12-23T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-is-the-lowest-source-of-energy"
description = "What is the lowest source of energy?"
+++
What is the lowest source of energy?
------------------------------------

Solar and wind are the cheapest new sources of energy says BNEF

- Solar PV and onshore wind are now the cheapest sources of new-build generation for at least two-thirds of the global population.
- Wind: Larger turbines = lower cost of energy.
- Solar PV: Costs down 9 per cent.
- Wind and solar farms are getting larger.

What is the least sustainable source of energy?
-----------------------------------------------

However, there is another aspect to sustainability claims, and when common environmental guidelines, policies and regulations are applied, it is clear that wind energy is our least sustainable energy source.

What is a sustainable source of energy?
---------------------------------------

Sustainable energy is derived from resources that can maintain current operations without jeopardizing the energy needs or climate of future generations. The most popular sources of sustainable energy, including wind, solar and hydropower, are also renewable.

What are the energy sources of the future?
------------------------------------------

Instead, the energy of the future will need to be generated by a patchwork of renewable sources: wind, solar, geothermal, hydro, and yes, nuclear power, will probably all play a role in generating the electricity of tomorrow.

Which is the main source of energy in the world?
------------------------------------------------

Today the global energy system is still dominated by fossil fuels, traditional biomass, hydropower and nuclear energy. 4 However, modern renewables, such as solar and wind, are growing and we expect them to play an increasing role in our energy systems in the coming decades.

Which is the best energy source without fossil fuels?
-----------------------------------------------------

While nuclear fission produces a great deal of energy without relying on fossil fuels, it also produces nuclear waste. Nuclear fusion, the source of the sun’s energy, generates significantly less waste without all the radiation.

Why are cheap sources of energy so important?
---------------------------------------------

Since then, the increasing availability of cheap energy has been integral to the progress we’ve seen over the past few centuries. It has allowed work to become more productive, and people in industrialized countries are much richer than their ancestors, work much less, and enjoy much better living conditions than ever before.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_23731" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/G5MYTMVjDDY?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>