+++
title = "What is conventional and unconventional source of energy?"
date = 2018-12-25T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-is-conventional-and-unconventional-source-of-energy"
description = "What is conventional and unconventional source of energy?"
+++
What is conventional and unconventional source of energy?
---------------------------------------------------------

Energy generated by using wind, solar, small hydro, tides, geothermal heat and biomass is known a non-conventional energy. All these sources are renewable process of energy generation and do not cause environmental pollution.

What is non-conventional source of energy with example?
-------------------------------------------------------

Difference Between Conventional and Non-conventional Sources of Energy

<table><tr><th>Conventional sources of energy</th><th>Non-conventional sources of energy</th></tr><tr><td>Coal, fossil fuels are two examples</td><td>Wind, solar energy and Biomass two examples</td></tr></table>

What is conventional source of energy?
--------------------------------------

What is a conventional source of energy? When we cannot reuse a source of energy after using it once we call them “conventional sources of energy” or “non-renewable energy resources”. They are the most important conventional sources of energy. These include coal, petroleum, natural gas and nuclear energy.

What is the difference between non-conventional and unconventional?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

As adjectives the difference between unconventional and nonconventional. is that unconventional is not adhering to convention or accepted standards while nonconventional is not conventional.

What is non-conventional?
-------------------------

1\. not established by accepted usage or general agreement; non-traditional. a nonconventional lifestyle. 2. (of weapons, warfare, etc) nuclear or chemical.

Why nuclear energy is non-conventional?
---------------------------------------

The vast majority of electricity from Nuclear Power is produced via nuclear fission, nuclear fusion, and nuclear decay reactions. Also referred to as the renewable sources of energy, the non-conventional sources of energy refer to those energy sources, which are replenished by natural processes, that too continuously.

What are examples of non conventional energy?
---------------------------------------------

Nonconventional energy sources (also called alternative energy sources) are any sources or substances that can be used to produce fuels, other than conventional fuels. These are sources that are continuously replenished by natural processes, including biomass, hydropower, nuclear power, solar energy, and tidal energy.

What is non conventional?
-------------------------

What are the types of conventional energy?
------------------------------------------

Conventional energy sources such as natural gas, oil, coal, or nuclear are finite but still hold the majority of the energy market. However, renewable energy sources like wind, fuel cells, solar, biogas/biomass, tidal, geothermal, etc.

What are the advantages of non-conventional energy sources?
-----------------------------------------------------------

1\. Cheaper and Renewable: Most of the Non-conventional Power resources are cheaper and renewable as compared to the conventional sources. 2. Scarcity of Fossil Fuels: The overall limitation and scarcity of fossil fuels has given rise to the urgent need for exploiting alternative energy sources.

What is non-conventional thinking?
----------------------------------

Unconventional thinking means looking at the world through an inquisitive, investigative lens, like you did as a child. And this perspective should not be limited just to your work, but permeate your general outlook on life. Most of the time, conventional thinking is fine.

What are non-conventional materials?
------------------------------------

Biobased materials involve renewable agricultural and forestry feedstocks, including wood, agricultural waste, grasses and natural plant fibers. These lignocellulosic materials are composed mainly of carbohydrates such as sugar and lignin, cellulose, vegetable oils and proteins.

What are the different types of conventional energy?
----------------------------------------------------

Conventional Sources of Energy: These sources of energy are also called non renewable sources. These sources of energy are in limited quantity except hydro-electric power. These are further classified as commercial energy and non-commercial energy: These are coal, petroleum and electricity.

Why do we need non-conventional sources of energy?
--------------------------------------------------

With the rapid industrialization and growth in population, the demand for energy is increasing continuously. To meet out this demand for energy, the conventional sources are not enough as their quantity is limited and can be expired one day. In this way, non-conventional resources reduce the dependency on conventional resources.

Are there two types of sources of energy?
-----------------------------------------

According to the principle of Conservation of Energy or the first law of Thermodynamics, energy can neither be created nor destroyed but can only be changed from one form to another. There are two prime sources of energy, namely, the Conventional Sources of Energy, and the Non-conventional Sources of Energy.

How are wind turbines a non conventional source of energy?
----------------------------------------------------------

Wind turbines use wind to make electricity. There is no pollution because no fossil fuels are burnt to generate electricity. One of India’s largest windmill farm is in Kanyakumari which generates 380mW of electricity. Biomass is the organic matter that originates from plants, animals, wood, sewage.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_88165" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BW_KXGhagoE?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>