+++
title = "What is the long bands of rain clouds that spiral around the storm?"
date = 2018-12-22T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-is-the-long-bands-of-rain-clouds-that-spiral-around-the-storm"
description = "What is the long bands of rain clouds that spiral around the storm?"
+++
What is the long bands of rain clouds that spiral around the storm?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Long bands of rain clouds appear to spiral inward to the eyewall — these are called spiral rainbands. Hurricanes can be hundreds of miles across. In addition to rotating with wind speeds of at least 74 mph, a hurricane travels relatively slowly across the ocean or land, usually at about 20 to 25 mph.

How do you describe the spiral rain bands?
------------------------------------------

Spiral Bands: where more rain is found. Radiating outward from the eye wall one can see a banded structure within the clouds. These clouds are called either spiral rain bands (or spiral bands). There are sometimes gaps in between these bands where no rain is found.

What are the large spiral bands of rain that are generated from a hurricane normally called?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bands of heavy convective showers that spiral inward toward the storm’s center.

What term is used to describe the large spiral bands of rain generated from a typhoon?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rainbands can be stratiform or convective, and are generated by differences in temperature. When noted on weather radar imagery, this precipitation elongation is referred to as banded structure. Rainbands within tropical cyclones are curved in orientation.

Why are the winds in the spiral bands of a hurricane so great?
--------------------------------------------------------------

As they strengthen, the winds boost evaporation of surface waters; as they surge upwards, the water vapor condenses and releases massive amounts of latent heat energy. This fuels the hurricane and builds the towering thunderheads of the eyewall, into which the cyclone’s radiating rainbands corkscrew.

Where are the weakest and strongest winds in a hurricane?
---------------------------------------------------------

The bottom-left side is considered the weakest section of a hurricane but can still produce dangerous winds. These winds are coming from off-shore and wrapping around the backside of the hurricane’s eye, so the friction with land has helped them weaken some.

What does a spiral rain band look like?
---------------------------------------

Spiral Rainbands: Bands of heavy convective showers that spiral inward toward the storm’s center.

How big was the rain band in Hurricane Andrew?
----------------------------------------------

Hurricane Andrew’s (1992) rainbands reached only 100 miles out from the eye, while those in Hurricane Gilbert (1988) stretched over 500 miles. These dense bands of thunderstorms, which spiral slowly counterclockwise, range in width from a few miles to tens of miles and are 50 to 300 miles long.

How are spiral rainbands used in tropical cyclones?
---------------------------------------------------

Spiral rainbands are such a basic structure to a tropical cyclone that in most tropical cyclone basins, use of the satellite-based Dvorak technique is the primary method used to determine a tropical cyclone’s maximum sustained winds.

What are the spacing of convective rain bands?
----------------------------------------------

Convective rainbands can form parallel to terrain on its windward side, due to lee waves triggered by hills just upstream of the cloud’s formation. Their spacing is normally 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) to 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) apart.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_99575" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bq0-QXXtOro?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>