+++
title = "What is the monthly salary of radiologist in India?"
date = 2018-12-27T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "what-is-the-monthly-salary-of-radiologist-in-india"
description = "What is the monthly salary of radiologist in India?"
+++
What is the monthly salary of radiologist in India?
---------------------------------------------------

Radiologist Salaries

<table><tr><th>Job Title</th><th>Salary</th></tr><tr><td>Reckitt Radiologist salaries – 1 salaries reported</td><td>₹5,66,698/yr</td></tr><tr><td>Self-employed Radiologist salaries – 1 salaries reported</td><td>₹3,00,000/mo</td></tr><tr><td>Fortis Healthcare Radiologist salaries – 1 salaries reported</td><td>₹94,896/mo</td></tr><tr><td>Krishna Consultants Radiologist salaries – 1 salaries reported</td><td>₹41,441/mo</td></tr></table>

What is radiologist salary per month?
-------------------------------------

In private medical institutions like Fortis Healthcare or Siemens Healthineers, the salaries of radiologists tend to be just as high or even higher than those offered by government medical colleges. ₹ 1.5 lakhs per month is a common standard remuneration provided in respected private medical establishments.

Is radiologist a good career in India?
--------------------------------------

Radiology is considered as one of the most sought-after specialities by Indian graduates, primarily based on the belief that it is a high-income, white-collared job.

Which radiologist makes the most money in India?
------------------------------------------------

The top 5 highest paying jobs as Radiologist with reported salaries are: senior consultant radiologist – ₹34lakhs per year. chief radiologist – ₹32lakhs per year. specialist radiologist – ₹28lakhs per year.

Is radiology a dangerous job?
-----------------------------

The practicing radiologist in the United States receives an annual average x-ray dose of 3.2 mSv. This dose of radiation results in between 17 and 28 cancer deaths among the 19,000 radiologists at risk, or an excess cancer risk of between 0.53% and 0.87%.

Is radiologist a stressful job?
-------------------------------

Results: The most stressful aspect of work for radiologists was work overload. Inadequacies in current staffing and facilities and concerns about funding were also major sources of stress, as were impositions made on radiologists by other clinicians.

How much does a radiologist make a year?
----------------------------------------

These charts show the average base salary (core compensation), as well as the average total cash compensation for the job of Radiologist in the United States. The base salary for Radiologist ranges from $368,390 to $490,190 with the average base salary of $423,690.

What are the duties of a radiologist in India?
----------------------------------------------

Consult with other physicians to develop a diagnosis for the patient. Interpret images generated by an x-ray, MRI, or other machine that use radiation to create an image. Direct radiology technicians on what methods and positions the test requires. Inform patients undergoing testing about procedures, risks, and benefits.

What do you need to know about being a radiologist?
---------------------------------------------------

The Radiologist consults with patients to determine the appropriate course of treatment. Examines and diagnoses disorders and diseases of the human body using x-ray and radioactive materials. Being a Radiologist requires a degree in medicine from an accredited school and is licensed to practice.

Can a DMRD make more than a radiologist?
----------------------------------------

As said in the other answer, it totally depends on the nature of Job you do and the location where you practice and also your qualification matters the most. If you have a MD in Radio-diagnosis, then you’ll be paid more than a person who is a DMRD or a DNB in Radiology.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_39241" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4SzqS0PUUJQ?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>