+++
title = "Where did the 2011 tsunami hit in Japan?"
date = 2018-12-24T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "where-did-the-2011-tsunami-hit-in-japan"
description = "Where did the 2011 tsunami hit in Japan?"
+++
Where did the 2011 tsunami hit in Japan?
----------------------------------------

On March 11, 2011, a magnitude (Mw) 9.1 earthquake struck off the northeast coast of Honshu on the Japan Trench. A tsunami that was generated by the earthquake arrived at the coast within 30 minutes, overtopping seawalls and disabling three nuclear reactors within days.

What natural disaster hit Japan March 2011?
-------------------------------------------

A magnitude 9.0 earthquake struck in the Pacific Ocean off the northeast coast of the Tōhoku region of Japan’s Honshu island on March 11, 2011. The Great East Japan Earthquake — the name given to the event by the Japanese government — triggered a massive tsunami that flooded more than 200 square miles of coastal land.

Where did the tsunami hit in Japan in 2011?
-------------------------------------------

On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced the strongest earthquake in its recorded history. The earthquake struck below the North Pacific Ocean, 130 kilometers (81 miles) east of Sendai, the largest city in the Tohoku region, a northern part of the island of Honshu. The Tohoku earthquake caused a tsunami.

Where was the epicenter of the 2011 earthquake in Japan?
--------------------------------------------------------

On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced the strongest earthquakein its recorded history. The earthquake struck below the North Pacific Ocean, 130 kilometers (81 miles) east of Sendai, the largest city in the Tohoku region, a northern part of the islandof Honshu. The Tohoku earthquake caused a tsunami.

How big was the tsunami after the Tohoku earthquake?
----------------------------------------------------

A 2 metres (6 ft 7 in) high tsunami hit Chiba Prefecture about 2½ hours after the quake, causing heavy damage to cities such as Asahi. On 13 March 2011, the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) published details of tsunami observations recorded around the coastline of Japan following the earthquake.

How did Japan recover from the earthquake and tsunami?
------------------------------------------------------

Has Japan recovered from the 2011 earthquake and tsunami? In July 2011, the Japanese government set a 10-year timeline for recovery with specific targets for clearing debris, restoring infrastructure, and housing. So far, nearly all of the debris from the earthquake and tsunami has been recycled or incinerated.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_20337" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/45BW8w6d3G4?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>