+++
title = "Why does earthquake occur in Zone?"
date = 2018-12-23T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "why-does-earthquake-occur-in-zone"
description = "Why does earthquake occur in Zone?"
+++
Why does earthquake occur in Zone?
----------------------------------

Why do so many earthquakes originate in this region? The belt exists along boundaries of tectonic plates, where plates of mostly oceanic crust are sinking (or subducting) beneath another plate. Earthquakes in these subduction zones are caused by slip between plates and rupture within plates.

Why do earthquakes mostly occur along plate boundaries?
-------------------------------------------------------

Most earthquakes happen at or near the boundaries between Earth’s tectonic plates because that’s where there is usually a large concentration of faults. Some faults crack through the Earth because of the stress and strain of the moving plates. Movement along those faults can cause earthquakes too.

Where do most earthquakes occur on a fault?
-------------------------------------------

Sometimes faults move when energy is released from a sudden slip of the rocks on either side. Most earthquakes occur along plate boundaries, but they can also happen in the middle of plates along intraplate fault zones.

What happens to the Earth when there is an earthquake?
------------------------------------------------------

When an earthquake occurs on one of these faults, the rock on one side of the fault slips with respect to the other. The fault surface can be vertical, horizontal, or at some angle to the surface of the earth.

Where does deformation take place during an earthquake?
-------------------------------------------------------

The type of deformation that takes place during an earthquake generally occurs along zones where rocks fracture to produce faults. Before we can understand earthquakes, we first must explore deformation of rocks and faulting.

What causes the ground to shake during an earthquake?
-----------------------------------------------------

Earthquakes occur when energy stored in elastically strained rocks is suddenly released. This release of energy causes intense ground shaking in the area near the source of the earthquake and sends waves of elastic energy, called seismic waves, throughout the Earth. Earthquakes can be generated by bomb blasts, volcanic eruptions, and sudden

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_61099" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RqqqSnaTfQo?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>