+++
title = "Why do earthquakes happen in Tonga?"
date = 2018-12-21T00:00:00
tags = ["Questions"]
slug = "why-do-earthquakes-happen-in-tonga"
description = "Why do earthquakes happen in Tonga?"
+++
Why do earthquakes happen in Tonga?
-----------------------------------

In the southwest Pacific Ocean, the Pacific Plate is moving westward and is thrust under the Tonga block, a “microplate” on the northeast edge of the Australian plate. During normal quakes, ground is pulled apart along a fault.

What if the 1906 earthquake happened today?
-------------------------------------------

According to the Kircher report, if an earthquake with the same magnitude as 1906 struck today, the Transbay Tube would be forced to close for two years, and would cost BART an estimated $860 million dollars to repair damages, undoubtedly wreaking havoc on our region’s public transit.

What caused the Samoa earthquake 2009?
--------------------------------------

The September 2009 Samoa tsunami was generated by an unusual type of earthquake that occurs near ocean trenches. Outer-rise earthquakes are caused by stresses in the subducting, oceanic plate induced by bending as the plate enters the trench.

How big was 2009 Samoa tsunami?
-------------------------------

22 meters  
On September 29, 2009, two large earthquakes struck midway between Samoa and American Samoa, a U.S. territory. The earthquakes generated tsunami waves of up to 22 meters (72 feet) that engulfed the shores, killing at least 192 people—149 in Samoa, 34 in American Samoa, and 9 in Niuatoputapu, Tonga.

Where was the epicenter of the tsunami in Tonga?
------------------------------------------------

Niuatoputapu after the tsunami. The main impact in Tonga was in the northern part of the island kingdom where there were deaths, injuries and extensive damage on Niuatoputapu, a flat coral island 500 km north of the main island Tongatapu, and reportedly closest to the epicentre of the earthquake. The death toll on the island has risen to nine.

How many people have died in the Tongan earthquake?
---------------------------------------------------

The death toll on the island has risen to nine. A Tongan government spokesman Alfred Soakai said 90% of homes had been destroyed as well as serious damage to the hospital. An adviser to the prime minister, Lopeti Senituli, later said the amount of damage to buildings has been downgraded to 60%.

How big was the earthquake in Samoa in 2009?
--------------------------------------------

The submarine earthquake occurred in an extensional environment and had a moment magnitude of 8.1 and a maximum Mercalli intensity of VI ( Strong ). It was the largest earthquake of 2009. A tsunami was generated which caused substantial damage and loss of life in Samoa, American Samoa, and Tonga.

Where did the earthquake and tsunami in Samoa take place?
---------------------------------------------------------

The 2009 Samoa earthquake and tsunami took place on 29 September 2009 in the southern Pacific Ocean adjacent to the Kermadec-Tonga subduction zone. The submarine earthquake occurred in an extensional environment and had a moment magnitude of 8.1 and a maximum Mercalli intensity of VI ( Strong ). It was the largest earthquake of 2009.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" class="__youtube_prefs__  epyt-is-override  no-lazyload" data-no-lazy="1" data-origheight="433" data-origwidth="770" data-skipgform_ajax_framebjll="" height="433" id="_ytid_45165" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NT_fVQ1LdQY?enablejsapi=1&autoplay=0&cc_load_policy=0&cc_lang_pref=&iv_load_policy=1&loop=0&modestbranding=0&rel=1&fs=1&playsinline=0&autohide=2&theme=dark&color=red&controls=1&" title="YouTube player" width="770"></iframe>